---
title: The S3D Club
authors:
  name: Mark Fansworth
  title: A Software Developer
  url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/markfarnsworth/
  image_url: https://media-exp1.licdn.com/dms/image/C4D03AQHyNRa5uRX66w/profile-displayphoto-shrink_800_800/0/1610824372979?e=1668643200&v=beta&t=SAlTxYvkFXlzAtS6_vpEo044gkUMJgCNarUoolBqvEc
tags: [dyslexia, dyscalculia]
---

My name is Mark; I am the first member of the club!

This is my first blog post for the [S3D](./) club.

The [S3D](./) club is a group of computer nerds. We exist in part to discuss software
development.

This is a place for [patch
theory](https://zims-en.kiwix.campusafrica.gos.orange.com/wikibooks_en_all_maxi/A/Understanding_Darcs/Patch_theory),
[memory management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tracing_garbage_collection),
[threading](https://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/fa17/classes/20-thread-safety/) and
other strange topics.

This is also a place for self taught developers, people who did poorly in
school, and anyone struggling to succed in software development.

In addition, the [S3D](/) club is a place that welcomes people who are not
**normal**. We think [Dyslexia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyslexia),
[Dyscalculia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyscalculia),
[ADHD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attention_deficit_hyperactivity_disorder),
and other types of
[Neurodiversity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autism_rights_movement) can be
compatible with success in software development.

It may be hard for my
[Neurotypical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurotypical) friends and
professional colleagues to believe, but I not only have quite profound
[Dyslexia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyslexia) I also have a condition
called [Dyscalculia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyscalculia). I had extreme
dificulties in school and was in `"special education"` classes from the 3rd
grade until graduation from high school. I was allowed to graduate high school
without completion of Algebra or any other of the normal courses in
mathematics. I never achieved mastery of the multipication table and must
count on my fingers far more often than
[Neurotypical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurotypical) people. I am also
profoundly Dyslexic. In the current climate, Dyslexia is no longer as shameful
as what felt like a crushing disability when I was a child.

The **AMAZING** luck of finding computers when I was young and then applying
myself has had a huge impact on my life. As strange as it may sound, I have had
a long career in software development.  I worked in a paid position as a
software developer from the age of sixteen years old. In the world of software
I have always had access to tools for the manipulation of numbers and text.
Through software development, I taught myself advanced mathamatics and the
**science** part of computer science. I have built parts of software packages
used in many diverse areas such as scientic labratory management, automobile
accident reconstructions, health care systems, marketing, banking, and
government. I was part of two successful software startups, hold a
[patent](https://patents.google.com/patent/US8869029), and currently work as a
Site Reliability Engineer. I still can not recite the multipication table but,
I no longer feel that I am **bad at math**. Software development has been a big part of [my strange life][book].

This site and the [S3D Club](/) is about sharing knowledge and projects related
to software development. The site will occasionally discuss issues associated
with Dyslexia and Dyscalculia but most of the content here will be focused on
the field of software development. It is my hope that non-dyslexic people will
find value here because I think it is a great field for anyone.

My start in software development was thirty years ago and really just amazing
luck. The experience of building a career in software was life changing for me.
I want to somehow find a way to **give back** and help young people with
dyslexia to enter this amazing field.  To build this site will take a lot of
time and effort but it is worth doing because it provides a way to **give
back** to the world of knowledge.

My hope is that the [S3D club](/) can help other dyslexics start and/or build
careers in software development.

The club will always be small. I might be a unicorn in the world of software
development.  Even if you are not exactly like me you are welcome to join this
club. We can learn from each other. Please submit merge requests to GitHub to
author your own entries on this blog.

My hope is that this club will help dyslexic people make software development
their career. The club can also be a space where dyslexic and non-dyslexic
profesionals network and engage in life long learning.  You do not need to be
dyslexic to join the club; there are no club membership fees.

If you are in position to help in **ANY** way, please reach out to me. We can
brainstorm about ideas for the site. The [Tutorial](/docs/category/tutorial)
and site as a whole will need a lot of proof reading. My hope with the tutorial
series is to get **newbies** started with a Linux and console oriented
approach. The site should eventually also host tutorials on different software
languages and tool stacks.

You can engage using [GitHub](https://github.com/s3d-club/s3d-website)
[issues](https://github.com/s3d-club/s3d-website/issues) and/or
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/mark.farnsworth.v2/).

## Join the S3D Club
The only action you need to join the club is to make a merge request to our
GitHub project adding your name as a line in
[s3d-club.yaml](https://github.com/s3d-club/s3d-website/blob/main/s3d-club.yaml).
If you have never made a GItHub merge request; this is your chance! Provided
your merge request is not profanity it will likely be merged. Learning to use
GitHub and learning to use it better will improve your career and that is a big
part of why the club exists.

[book]: https://go.s3d.club/farnsw/book 
